Xəlil Kələntər, Ph.D.
“K. Käläntär”
Global Optical Solutions & Kepler
Senior Researcher & Developer
"K. Käläntär" <gosx2020@gmail.com>
Tel: +81-90-4410-0426
Dr. K. Käläntär was born on October 15, 1953, in Azerbaijan. He completed his Bachelor
of Electronics Engineering degree at the Polytechnic University (B.E. 1980) and pursued
further studies in Japan at the Toyohashi University of Technology (M.E. 1984), Nagoya
University (D.E. 1987), and Tohoku University (D.E. 2003). He earned his first Ph.D.
from the Toyohashi University of Technology and his second Ph.D. from Tohoku
University.
Dr. Käläntär has made significant contributions to the fields of optical engineering and
display technologies. His research spans spatial two-dimensional and three-dimensional
(2D/3D) optical coherent image transmission in graded-index optical fibers and step-
index optical-fiber bundles, optoelectronic sensors, measurement equipment, optical
microstructure functional devices, LCD backlight unit (BLU) optics, liquid crystal display
(LCD) optics, and optical vortex arrays utilizing smectic liquid crystals.
Since 1995, Dr. Käläntär has been dedicated to the development of optical devices and
modules for LCD units. He pioneered the design and development of optical light-guide
plates with microstructures such as micro-reflectors and micro-deflectors and was the first
to manufacture mass of functional light-guide plates with such innovations. He
established the BLU Optics field and has published over 96 articles in English, Japanese,
and Chinese.
In addition to his research, Dr. Käläntär holds nearly 100 patents worldwide (issued and
pending in Japan, USA, Canada, Europe, South Korea, Taiwan) and has authored and
supervised three books in Japanese:
1) LCD Backlighting Technologies,
2) LED Backlighting Technologies,
3) Technological Lighting Exploitation for LCDs.
He has also written more than 15 book chapters in both Japanese and English on display
electronics.
Dr. Käläntär has served as an advisor to the Aomori Prefecture, playing a key role in
advancing optically compensated bend (OCB) LCD technology in Japan. He has
collaborated extensively with Japanese universities on government-funded projects and
has supervised doctoral candidates at international universities, contributing to the
development and production of various electronic displays and sensors worldwide.
In addition to his significant contributions within Japanese companies and organizations,
Dr. Käläntär has also worked in South Korea, spending three years at Samsung-Cheil
Mojik, further expanding his expertise and impact in the field of electronic displays.
In recognition of his outstanding contributions, Dr. Käläntär was honored with the
Special Recognition Award by The Society for Information Display (SID) in May 2007
for his groundbreaking work in introducing a novel optical design method for LCD
backlight light guides.
He has been a Senior Member of SID since 2008 and has earned numerous prestigious
awards, including:
1) The Distinguished Paper Awards at SID2011 and SID2018
2) The SID Fellow distinction in 2013
3) The Research and Development Award from the Japanese Liquid Crystal Society
(JLCS) in 2016
4) The KUM (Kobayashi-Uchiike-Mikoshiba) Award in December 2023 from the
International Display Workshops, Japan
As an expert in the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), Dr. Käläntär
received the IEC1906 Award in 2018 and has contributed to the publication of seven IEC
documents since 2008.
Dr. Käläntär has also played a pivotal role in professional organizations. He served as
Program Vice-Chair for SID-2010 and chaired the Special Topic on Solid-State Lighting
(Novel Lighting) at SID2010. He was the Program Chair for the LIT workshop on solid-
state lighting at IDW-2010 and served as an associate editor for a special issue of the
Journal of the Society for Information Display (JSID) on solid-state lighting.
He is a member of the program committees for the FMC and DES Workshops of the
International Display Workshops (IDW) in Japan and is one of the three founders of the
DES workshop. Dr. Käläntär chaired the FMC Workshop Group at IDW from 2015 to
2017 and also served as the Chair of the Display Systems (DSY) subcommittee at SID
(USA) during the same period. Since 2020, he has resumed his role as Chair of the DSY
Subcommittee (USA).