Jamila Javadova-Spitzberg, organ, historical fortepiano (hammerklavier)
1405 Creekford Drive, Arlington, Texas, 76012
jjavspitz@gmail.com
https://www.youtube.com/@jjavadova-spitzberg
+1-214-909-1275
Degree Awarded: Doctor of Musical Arts, May 2008
University of North Texas, Denton, Texas, USA
Major: Performance
Degree Awarded: Certificate
Leopold Mozart Center, Augsburg, Germany
Fellowship: Historical Keyboard Instruments
Degree Awarded:  Muziek 1e fase, Orgel, July 2000
Conservatorium van Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Major: Performance
Licentiate of the Royal Schools of Music, July 1997
The Associated Board of Royal Schools of Music, UK
Major: Performance
Degree Awarded: Master of Music (MM), June 1986
Azerbaijan State Conservatory
Double Major: Music Theory and Performance
Praised by the American Record Guide for her tasteful, appropriately shaded, colored, and
intellectually engaging performances, Jamila Javadova-Spitzberg is an internationally renowned
organist, keyboardist, and educator. She is an Assistant Professor at the University of Texas at
Arlington, with teaching areas comprising organ and harpsichord performance. Her concert
venues span the United States, countries of the former USSR, and Europe, including the
Netherlands, Germany, France, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Poland, and England. In April
2018, Javadova-Spitzberg performed a solo program at the Washington National Cathedral. This
was the only performance by a female organist in the 2017-2018 concert series at the nation's
Cathedral. Acclaimed musician's performance of the G minor organ concerto by French
composer F. Poulenc with the Azerbaijan State Symphony Orchestra on November 29, 2024,
received accolades and recognition from her fellow musicians and music critics.
Javadova-Spitzberg is an Assitant Professor at the University of Texas at Arlington, with teaching
areas comprising organ and harpsichord performance. Javadova-Spitzberg's performance
repertoire encompasses works from the Baroque to the Twentieth Century. She is passionate
about discovering and exploring European historical instruments, playing recitals, and recording.
Javadova-Spitzberg has released two CDs featuring piano, orchestral, and ballet works by the
eminent and leading Azerbaijani composer Gara Garayev, as well as Johann Ernst Eberlin's "IX
Toccata e Fughe per L'Organo." These recordings, made on the magnificent Marcussen & Søn
organ at St. Laurenskerk in Rotterdam, The Netherlands (2016), and the Johann Nepomuk
Holzhey organ in Marchtal Abbey, Germany (2015), hold significant cultural and historical
value. Keen on promoting the organ works of Azerbaijani composers, Javadova-Spitzberg has
also released video films containing organ works of Azerbaijani composers, recorded in
Elandstraat Church in Den Haag, The Netherlands (2022). Equipped with knowledge on the
history and development of Organ Music Culture in Azerbaijan, Javadova-Spitzberg has given
numerous live and online presentations on various conferences worldwide on this subject.
As a result of a one-year-long fellowship at the Leopold Mozart Center in Augsburg, Germany,
Javadova-Spitzberg received training in historical fortepiano (hammerklavier) performance
practice. In 2022, she was privileged to perform on the original Walter fortepiano (1782) of W.A.
Mozart in Salzburg, Austria. Inspired by this instrument, she acquired a copy of the 1805 Walter
fortepiano, built for her by Paul McNulty, a maker of world-famous fortepianos in Divišov,
Czech Republic. Using the performance-practice value of her fortepiano, Javadova-Spitzberg
frequently performs and promotes works of women composers from the 18th and early 19th
centuries, such as Lebrun, Franziska (1756–1791), and Aurenhammer, Josephina Barbara (1758-
1820). Among other notable historical instruments played by Javadova-Spitzberg are the
Hagerbeer/Schnitger organ at Grote Sint-Laurenskerk in Alkmaar and Grote of St. Michielskerk
in Zwolle, as well as the C. Muller organ at St. Bavo in Haarlem and the A. Hinsz organ at
Bovenkerk in Kampen.
Javadova-Spitzberg enjoys sharing her experiences and knowledge with her students in her
private studio, academic institutions (UNT, UT Dallas, Baku Music Academy), and concert
stages, including Carnegie Hall, NYC. She has given numerous organ performance masterclasses
at the Baku Music Academy, Azerbaijan, and encourages her students to become active members
of the organists' community in the region, performing at various events organized by the
American Guild of Organists and church services.
Javadova-Spitzberg holds a Doctor of Musical Arts degree from the University of North Texas,
USA, majoring in Organ Performance with a minor in music theory. Under the supervision of Dr.
Lenora McCroskey, she defended her doctoral thesis dedicated to the Dutch Baroque composer
A. van Noordt and his "Tabulatuurboeck van Psalmen en Fantasyen" of 1659.
During 1997-2000, while studying with the renowned organ Professor Jacques van Oortmerssen
at the Amsterdam Conservatory, Javadova-Spitzberg extensively worked on developing Baroque
performance practice skills. She received a Master of Music (MM) degree from the Azerbaijan
State Conservatory, double majoring in music theory and organ performance under Dr. T.
Yagubova. Additionally, she received the Licentiate Diploma from the Royal Schools of Music
of the UK. She mastered her performance skills with renowned organ music experts such as Jean
Boyer, Michel Bouvard, Naji Hakim of France, Andrea Marcon of Italy, Hans-Ola Ericsson, and
Hans Davidsson of Sweden.
In 2017, Javadova-Spitzberg founded and became the Executive Director of the Azerbaijan-
American Music Foundation (AAMF), a non-profit organization dedicated to building "classical
music bridges" between her country of origin, Azerbaijan, and the USA. The organization
publishes classical works of Azerbaijani composers in the USA and holds music competitions
and concerts in collaboration between American and Azerbaijani musicians. In recognition of her
efforts in the field and the advancement of Azerbaijani Classical Music in the USA and
worldwide, Javadova-Spitzberg was awarded the "Tarraggi" Medal, a state award of the
Azerbaijan Republic, in 2022 by the decree of the President of Azerbaijan, for her contributions
in the sphere of science, culture, literature, arts, and public service.
PROFESSIONALS SKILLS:
• Performing on modern piano, historical fortepiano, organ, and harpsichord
• Solo, chamber and orchestral performances
• Sight Reading
• Deep knowledge of the music literature and instruments
• Developing and implementing a student-centered curriculum
• Developing and implementing new course content
• Organizing, preparing, and revising course material
• Teach Individual lessons (piano, organ, harpsichord)
• Coach ensembles
• Teach history of keyboard instruments
• Teach historical performance practice
• Teach group performance lessons
• Teach Music Theory and Ear Training
• Teach Keyboard Proficiency
• Teach Music History and Appreciation Courses
• Classroom teaching and lecturing
• Teaching appropriate techniques based on the student's choice of the instrument
• Systematically introduce students to a wide range of stylistically varied music literature,
from the Baroque era to the Twentieth Century, to broaden their musical horizons.
• Encouraging students to perform publicly
• Encouraging students' active classroom participation
• Organizational and leadership
• Communication
• Maintain, tune Instruments
• Giving pre-concert talks
• Writing and publishing
• Recording
• Collegiate responsibilities